# CH01

In this chapter we will start with small. The starter apk file with its android version code is provided (inside ComposeQuad folder).

This app has few navgivation buttons. But our focus is on the theme. Right now the theme changes as you change the theme of your device. We will make sure that whatever the theme be, the app should always be in darktheme.

## Step 1

First go on and follow the [readme](../README.md), and install the app and get a look at it once.

## Step 2

Now we will decompile it using apktool in linux (hope you are working on linux).

```bash
## assuming your apk file is also base.apk
apktool d base.apk
```

if you get any error, its probably about not giving enough memory, so use the [readme-guide](../README.md#decode-the-app)


## Step 3

Now explore the output folder. One should start with the `AndroidManifest.xml`. This file is like the `main` function in many languages and much more. loop for the `<application>` tag. Inside it look for `<activity>` which also contains tag `<intent-filter>` with `<action>` tag containing something like,

```xml
<activity android:exported="true" android:label="@string/app_name" android:name="com.learning.learn_smali.MainActivity" android:theme="@style/Theme.Learn_smali">
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN"/>
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER"/>
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
```

The attribute `android:name` in this activity tells which has the starter code when the application is opened by clicking the app icon. Now we need to file the file which contains `com.learning.learn_smali.MainActivity` but you will find that there are too many files which has similar text. Hence we will look for pattern matching. For this I would recommend use an IDE which gives you pattern searching capabilities, or be a super cool guy and using ripgrep/grep. But in the end you will have to pattern match something like,

```bash
grep -rn "\.class .*com.learning.learn_smali.MainActivity" /path/to/directory
```

`Note:` Since this app is written in kotlin, Kt is added to the end of the class name with a simicolon (`;`) so what you must run is,

```bash
grep -rn "\.class .*com.learning.learn_smali.MainActivityKt;" /path/to/directory
```

## Step 4

Now the MainActivityKt.smali file in itself is too giberish to someone who understands but little smali.
